"Tips and Tricks" lets you jump right in and learn how to be productive with Visual Studio Code. You'll become familiar with its powerful editing, code intelligence, and source code control features and learn useful keyboard shortcuts. This topic goes pretty fast and provides a broad overview, so be sure to look at the other in-depth topics in Getting Started and the User Guide to learn more.

If you don't have Visual Studio Code installed, go to the Download page. You can find platform specific setup instructions at Running VS Code on Linux, macOS, and Windows.

Basics
Getting started
Open the Welcome page to get started with the basics of VS Code. Help > Welcome.

welcome page

In the bottom right of the Welcome page, there is a link to the Interactive playground where you can interactively try out VS Code's features. Help > Interactive Playground.

interactive playground

Command Palette
Access all available commands based on your current context.
python is here
Keyboard Shortcut: Ctrl+Shift+P

command palette

Default keyboard shortcuts
All of the commands are in the Command Palette with the associated key binding (if it exists). If you forget a keyboard shortcut, use the Command Palette to help you out.

keyboard references

Keyboard reference sheets
Download the keyboard shortcut reference sheet for your platform (macOS, Windows, Linux).

Keyboard Reference Sheet

Quick Open
Quickly open files.

Keyboard Shortcut: Ctrl+P

Quick Open

Tip: Type ? to view help suggestions.

Navigate between recently opened files
Repeat the Quick Open keyboard shortcut to cycle quickly between recently opened files.

Open multiple files from Quick Open
You can open multiple files from Quick Open by pressing the Right arrow key. This will open the currently selected file in the background and you can continue selecting files from Quick Open.

Command line
VS Code has a powerful command line interface (CLI) which allows you to customize how the editor is launched to support various scenarios.

Make sure the VS Code binary is on your path so you can simply type 'code' to launch VS Code. See the platform specific setup topics if VS Code is added to your environment path during installation (Running VS Code on Linux, macOS, Windows).